.. _scenario:

--------
Scenario
--------

As you go through this POC (Proof of Concept) Workshop you will use this Customer Scenario to provide some depth, context, and realism to the exercises that you do.  Read through the scenario below and take into account each stakeholder's perspective, their pain points, and their goals and requirements.
You should be able to communicate the specific Nutanix Product/Feature in your POC sections to each of those stakeholders and explain how Nutanix can solve their business challenges, can help them achieve their goals, and how Nutanix differentiates itself from the competition.
As you go through the review process with your manager, and potentially your peers, you will want to demonstrate that you not only have completed the section of this POC Guide that were assigned to you, or that you assigned yourself to accomplish, but you will also want to be able to demonstrate to management and your peers that you can articulate the Nutanix Value Proposition in light of this scenario.
Think of how you might do this with an actual meeting with a prospect/customer at the end of a POC.  How would you show them success for the POC and how it met their requirements and reduced or eliminated their pain.  This should not be a PowerPoint presentation, but a demonstration through verbal communication and a walk through of what was accomplished in the UI.

Customer Scenario
+++++++++++++++++

Customer is a large retailer with multiple locations across the country.  They have several datacenters and also several remote branch offices that provide localized IT services.  They have engaged with Nutanix because they are looking to consolidate a few of their data centers and are interested in the Nutanix HCI platform and software services that Nutanix offers.

Their VP of Infrastructure has communicated to her staff that as part of this consolidation she also wants to reduce the complexity of their current solution.  There are too many silos, dependencies, and complicated engineered solutions which slow the business down.  She wants to be able to be flexible and nimble as they introduce new products to the market to beat their competition and gain an edge.  Security is also a huge concern for her and her team as they try to keep up with the pace of the business.  Several companies in their industry have been brought to their knees with Ransomware and other targeted attacks.  Because of this she wants to increase their capabilities to recover from failures and need to ensure that there are no single points of failure and wants to be able to recover from individual failures to also entire datacenter site-wide failures.

The Enterprise Architect wants to ultimately have a solution that is flexible to changing needs from the business and gives him similar capabilities to a cloud provider, without the high cost and lock in to a specific vendor and their technology.  He's also deeply invested into VMware's software for virtualization, automation, network security, and monitoring.  He's often mentioned the pain involved whenever they wish to move forward with a new feature from one of their VMware products on how long it takes them to upgrade all the other software components that feature relies on.  He's mentioned that their storage is a mixture of NetApp, Dell/EMC, and Pure Storage.  They also leverage the NetApp as a Filer for file share data but his storage admin continually gripes about the lack of insight that they have into their NetApp Filer. The EA is frustrated with him since getting new storage from him can take weeks for new projects.

The Storage Admin is very concerned about performance, especially for their business critical database workloads, and is skeptical that a new solution can outperform their current storage arrays.  He's also very confident in his current storage arrays availability and reliability to date.  Though he has mentioned that he's very cautious and rarely updates the SANs or the FC Fabric due to previous experiences which ended up in outages and several day maintenance windows.  He has said that typically it takes him about 1 week to deploy storage for a new project, assuming that there's available capacity, otherwise it takes 2-3 months to deploy a new storage array.
